[Music]
so why are we here I think uh this talk
we want to kind of accomplish two aims
one is talking about how UFOs are real
they're they're real phenomena they're
real thing but I think that's somewhat
pay and conventional at this point over
50% of the American population at this
point probably believes in the existence
of UFOs we're at hereticon so I think
the real heresy here would be actually
linking uh UFOs as a modern observable
scientific phenomena with uh past
religious phenomena so Angels and Demons
would be kind of the popular
nomenclature of of of the past is what
we're experiencing today what we've
experienced in the past and so is
religion actually real you know the uh
Latin root of religion is religare which
means to relink and it's our belief on
this panel that uh through observing
UFOs we can relink ourselves with uh you
know kind of a past epistemology that
we've always had and that modernity is
actually somewhat of an aberration from
that epistemology so I have two amazing
guests to discuss this uh with me first
I have Diana Walsh Pula she is a
classicist and um religious studies
Professor who specializes in Catholic
history she wrote a great book in 2014
called Heaven Can Wait about the
Catholic concept of purgatory and then
uh very interestingly she followed that
up with two books on uh UFO phenomena as
kind of a meta religious modern
phenomena uh 2018 she wrote an amazing
book called American Cosmic which is
like the modern ufology Bible I I highly
recommend you read it and in 2023 she
wrote a great book called encounters and
she in her own right is somewhat of a
you know kind of a Mystic and Truth
seeker and so very honored to have her
uh we also have Colonel Carl Nell uh on
stage um very excited to have him he's a
he's a very polymathic thinker and uh
it's always hard to present him because
his CV is is very long and impressive
but he uh worked at aerospace companies
like locked Martin northr Grumman he's
commanded every level of the army uh to
Brigade um he helped set up Army Futures
command so he he ran a lot of tech
modernization efforts for the Army and
probably most relevant for this talk he
was the Army representative for the UAP
or unidentified anomalous phenomena task
force which basically was directed to
look into uh UAP UFOs I'll use those
interchangeably in their existence and
reality and so you know he's a privil
for priv do a lot of classified
information but here he'll be talking
about the non-classified information and
I want to start with you Carl uh to you
know Alay audience you know uh how would
you convince them that UFOs are real
because this whole talk is kind of you
know predicated on that fact well thank
you Jesse it's a pleasure to be here and
great to be here with Diana and really
excited about this event so yeah we
actually uh looked into this area and so
probably privy to a lot of information
that's not publicly available so you
know how can the rest of the folks out
there maybe have some confidence that uh
you know there's some reality to this
subject so there's sort of three lines
of evidence that you can look at uh
there's the first principles there's
sort of testimonial from people that are
in positions to know and then there's
the data so like if we're going to kind
of run through those from first
principles uh you know the the going in
position is probably the laws of physics
are the same uh here that they are
everywhere else and and undoubt there's
some exceptions but in general that's
pretty much accepted by everybody and so
if you look at how quickly life evolved
on our planet uh the uh argument that's
usually made is that life is uncommon
and that faster than light travel is not
possible and both of these things really
have no evidence for them it's the exact
opposite so for instance uh their blue
green algae fossilized in stromatolites
from 3.5 billion years ago and recent
scholarship has indicated that life may
have evolved even earlier 4.1 billion
years ago so the Earth itself is five
billion years old the crust has not even
cooled by uh 4.1 billion years ago so
there's evidence that life evolved on
Earth at the earliest possible time even
earlier than would be reasonably um
suspected there's microbes that can live
in outer space that we've determined are
viable and recently as of maybe a month
ago people identified microbes that were
in stasis in two billion year old
terrestrial rock that were brought back
to life so it's in essence life is
either evolving very quickly or some
sort of pans spermia situation going on
that's what all the evidence sort of
suggests if you look at the sun the
sun's what's called a population one
star there's 20 billion uh population
one stars in the galaxy the sun is like
a relatively young population one star
there's Stars that are like the sun that
are five billion years older than the
Sun so that's like a massive amount of
time for other civilizations to
potentially evolve on these other
planets and and just statistically so
then you look at like faster than light
travel like can they get here you you
don't even need that assumption but
Miguel alcir a Mexican postgraduate
student University of Mexico in 1994
solved Einstein's equations for an
effective faster than light mechanism
NASA's looked into this there's there's
no dispute that the solution is a valid
solution so it requires this thing
called negative energy to work well
negative energy is a component of
quantum mechanics the cosmere effect
which was known in the 60s and
demonstrated in the 90s is evidence for
the for the existence of negative energy
the expansion of the universe which
we've recently determined is
accelerating is due to something called
Dark Energy dark energy is negative
energy so we've got an effective
solution for Einstein's equations that
requires negative energy and we know
negative energy exists
this isn't an engineering solution but
it is a theoretical solution so it was
it's very much disingenuous to suggest
that life is uh uncommon and fast and
light travel as possible both of those
are false so that's sort of the first
principles argument once you kind of put
that into the context of all the other
evidence so let's look at testimonial
now testimonial isn't uh hard scientific
factual data but then you've got to
explain why people such as uh Barack
Obama Donald Trump all say that UFOs are
real they're in a position to have been
briefed on this you can look at uh the
uh admiral of the fleet Lord Hill Norton
of the United Kingdom former M um
Minister of Defense staff has basically
said UFOs are real you can look at uh
Heim Eed the father of the Israeli space
program that says non-human intelligence
is real you can look at Paul helier the
uh former minister of defense for Canada
has said non-human intelligence is real
you can look at uh Chris melon who's the
first assistant secretary of defense for
intelligence for the progenitor for the
under secretary for Intel and security
has come out and said UFOs are real you
can look at David grush who just
testified last year before the house
committee on oversight to the effect
that there is a government program
looking at UFOs because they're real and
he was accompanied by two Naval aviators
that said the same thing you can look at
Lou Alando who's a very famous uh UAP
whistleblower so and and there's many
more of these so that's sort of like the
testimonial evidence in fact you can
look at uh the legislation that was just
submitted by Senator Schumer and Senator
rounds and as well as Senator Rubio and
Senator gilbran and several other of
their colleagues last year that
basically said we need to look into this
uh the Congress is not being told the
truth and uh there's evidence that the
government knows more than what they're
saying about this topic fact Senator RS
and Senator Schumer had a cqu to discuss
this very topic and intended to
reintroduce that legislation and so then
you can look at the data we've got
videos what they call colloquially the
Flur the gimal the go fast video that
show unidentified uh flying objects that
the Pentagon has asserted are not ours
and are not our adversaries and they
date from events that happened in 2004
in 2015 you can look at uh the
experience of Gordon Cooper one of
American America's first Mercury 7
astronauts who chased UFOs in 1951 over
West Germany and it testified before the
uh the United Nations in 1979 to that
fact you can look at the uh incursions
over the northern us ballistic missile
warning system in the 70s where uh
Radars were picking up UFOs and then you
can look at in the 1960s the Readiness
status change at of our icbms at
malstrom Air Force Base where missiles
were taken offline and then in the
Soviet Union an analogous thing where
missiles were brought online and there
Foy a documents and testimony to the
reality of that there's an agreement
between the former Soviet Union and the
United States that's still in force
intending to reduce the threat of
nuclear war where there's a stipulation
that either side will notify the other
if UFOs impact their um missile early
Warning Systems so people say well if
this is real like why don't they just
like you know um land on the White House
lawn well in
1952 the radar visual sightings over
Washington DC for two weekends including
air-to-air intercepts that precipitated
the largest press conference since World
War II up to that time and so people say
well okay why don't just l in the middle
of the day and um that's happened in
1994 in Rua Zimbabwe where uh craft
landed and beings presented themselves
to uh Elementary School age children uh
in the middle of the day that that an
almost similar identical incident
happened in
1966 in West Hall Australia there's a a
concerted correlation between um UFO or
UAP activity and nuclear sites the
pantac site in uh Texas and the Hanford
plutonium production Facility have
numerous UFO um sightings and
correlations and in fact there this
extends to overseas sites even the
Fukushima incident had um had
correlations so so looking at the
evidence both from the standpoint of
first principles from the standpoint of
people who would know and from factual
information it's indisputable that this
is a real
phenomenon and when it comes to UFOs I
think there's this kind of misnomer that
this all started in the 40s it started
with the Advent of our nuclear program
Diana you've done some amazing work
about how this might comport with things
that we've observed in our religious
tradition and in history in the past
okay yeah sure so um first I want to
explain a little bit about what we do in
my field which is called religious
studies uh religious studies is a
discipline that is academic so I'm not
going to we don't advocate for religion
we're not ministers or theologians we're
academics we use archaeology history um
you know academic disciplines in order
to look at Social effects of of
basically religion uh most of the people
in the world are religious more than 8
usually 83 about 83 to 85% of the world
um affiliate with some religion so it's
actually important to study religion I'm
not going to advocate for belief in UFOs
I'm going to tell you my story about how
I got into this because I was never I
never thought about UFOs in fact until
three years ago I had not seen Close
Encounters of the Third Kind and U what
a great movie that is by the way so um
so yeah so I'm not going to advocate for
belief in UFOs but what I am going to do
is tell you about my entrance into this
field which has ramped up considerably
since I started in 2012 so in 2012 I was
writing a book called Heaven Can Wait
about what in my field we call Ascent
narratives all cultures have their own
forms of this uh genre of of uh oral
tradition or literature and what an
Ascent narrative is is basically a
person who is either touring uh the
afterlife like Dante touring hell patory
and then Heaven A pre-christian Ascent
narrative would be the allegory of the
cave uh in Plato's Republic where uh a
person thinks that reality are these
Shadows on the wall and ascends out of
the cave and recognizes that wow there's
another reality so this is what I was
doing I was looking at Ascent narratives
in the Catholic history in Christian
history and I utilized um archives so
archives are I've been to the Vatican
and looked at their various archives
they have many uh over 53 miles of
shelving of old documents um these are
the kinds of things you see in archives
material culture codexes you know things
like this Philadelphia has a wonderful
archive um so I looked at archives and I
was looking for data about uh Purgatory
which I found but I also found reports
of aerial phenomena by Catholic people
from Europe and Canada and United States
from 1200 to 1800 and I thought the were
these were interesting because a lot of
time s when Catholic European Catholics
say saw something in the sky um they
would have a moment of confusion what is
this um you know what are the things
they would see in the sky so they would
see discs uh light orbs uh sometimes
they would see things they thought were
flying houses okay the Flying House of
Laredo um so these you know they would
see these aerial phenomena and I took
notes because I'm a researcher and
that's what I do I don't leave data out
so I had this long list of these uh
writings sometimes they would interpret
them as Souls from purgatory that needed
to be prayed away um but they they saw
these things and I thought that was
interesting but UFOs never crossed my
mind so I kept a long a log of these
sightings so I showed a friend of mine
and said what do you think of these
reports and immediately he looked at
them and said they remind me of a a
stevenh Spielberg movie they look like
UFOs and I thought he was silly okay I
thought he was silly um I didn't think
about it again until I started to
publish my information about these
events and reports what now I call Angel
contact events generally is what I uh
how I refer to them um I started to get
inquiries from people at aerospace
companies and not just one I got a lot
and I was thinking that this was strange
because this has never happened to me
before when I was writing about Catholic
history but it was this spe specific um
thing which was the Angel reports and
they wanted my data and they were very
interested in certain things they wanted
to know what did the people describe
seeing um did the people describe uh
light what was the color of the light uh
what did the objects look like and most
interesting to me did the people report
injuries okay did the people report
injuries well yes actually they did but
um so they wanted my data um I happened
to meet one of these people uh this was
quite an impressive person is I call him
pseudonymously in the book that I wrote
about this um Tyler and he had amazing
credentials um he worked for our space
program uh he was the government lison
to Elon Musk for certain missions and he
said that they had acquired debris from
UFO crash sites and that he was reverse
engineering these and they were creating
this technology kind of gamechanging
technology that was in 2016 that I went
with um with people that I had to have
as pseudonyms okay so now Gary Nolan has
come out and that's actually a relief to
me that he's come out as himself and the
reason why we went was because Tyler
who's still a pseudonym um for a person
who is a mission controller and works in
the space force so whereas I was looking
at these as maybe metaphoric or
historical you know not necessarily well
not at all real that's not what we do in
my field we're not looking at these as
real things all of these very
intelligent um credentialed highly
placed people scientists were looking at
these as if they were real and so that
was shocking to me okay um I then looked
back at my Tradition at the Catholic
tradition and I looked at some of the
most iconic um Angel contact events and
I began to understand them in a
different way and one that you might
know about is the um the stigmata so the
Stigmata happened to St Francis of AI
arguably the most famous saint of the
Catholic Church you even though you may
not be Catholic you've seen statues of
him if you've you know gone into Gardens
you'll see him he has you know usually a
bird on his shoulder or something like
that so A very charismatic person living
in the 1200s in Europe and um he had an
experience of thankfully they have one
of these here of this seraphim so if
you'll see over here in the icon of this
event
is a seraphim which I thought was really
it actually convinced me to come I was
like yeah I'll come and I'll talk about
what I've studied and you know what I
know about um so the seraphim um is uh
is this Angel and it doesn't look like
the angels that we typically know about
and um well if you look at the primary
source material of these contact events
it looks like that and it generally has
an eye in the middle of it and it does
it injure I looked at the primary source
material for St Frank Francis of aisi
and what I found was that when he had
this contact with this thing that he
described as a seraphim it came down
there was light it had an eye and there
are competing primary source reports but
the best report shows that brother Leo
who's about 15 he's watching and he sees
that this is how he describes it that
this thing dealt harshly with Francis
afterwards Francis was injured and the
tradition determines that these injuries
are called the wounds of Christ what
happened was that this was a a very hush
hush situation for Francis and Leo and
when they went back to the convent um
they he he tried uh as best as he could
to make Francis comfortable because he
was injured and they didn't tell anybody
okay so it was completely quiet um it
was a stigma okay it was literally a
stigma and so um he heent po died most
likely from these wounds and what's so
amazing about that story the burns on on
uh St Francis of ais's hands really
comport Ono one with what the CIA is now
studying as far as people who've
encountered UFOs so they work with um
Gary Nolan who's a microbiologist Nobel
nominee at Stanford who has actually has
a foundation dedicated to this and the
CIA came knocking at his door and
they're like we have this files of
people who've had all these anomalous
experiences
and they really comport with you know
it's like he had you know
electromagnetic radiation they just
didn't really have the words to describe
it but in using the term Stigmata and
stigma uh we bring up this idea of
non-disclosure this idea that power
structures kind of institutionally gate
reality from us so is that happening in
the modern UFO context as well Carl yeah
thanks for that question so yeah exactly
so there's sort of six principles or
reasons for non-disclosure of this
information from a government stand
point the first being National Security
like you don't want the adversary to
know what you know and and uh and so on
and then you know the second reason is
sort of lack of a plan this is so
profound and impactful uh and as Peter T
sort of alluded you know there may be
technology with unknown
ramification and uh you know if you let
that out there could have significantly
detrimental effect so you've got this
lack of a plan issue you've got this
potential for societal disruption like
the ontological shock that will come
from a realization of you know angels
and Aliens you've got the potential for
a covert agreement where people are
benefiting from the status quo uh that
is non-public the potential for misdeeds
having occurred and the desire to cover
up misdeeds and the potential just
organizational transigence lack of a
priority that you would expect of any
type of U bureaucracy and so this isn't
like necessarily theoretical right you
can look at historical documents 1953
there's Declassified documents there's a
a panel called the Robertson panel at
the CIA that basically said the
government decides to debunk this topic
to uh misdirect the public and to
actually infiltrate uh the organizations
that existed at the time the public
organizations that were looking into
this this is absolutely established fact
nobody disputes this and the documents
are available in uh people perhaps heard
of Project Blue Book this uh in dozen
year study looking at UFOs by the US Air
Force Air Force wanted to get out of
this job they commissioned a study from
the University of Colorado
Ed Condon led the studies Manhattan
Project Alum he wrote the conclusion of
the study before the study was complete
bragged about it a lot of the scientists
on the study defected publicly from the
study the study got published the
content of the study is uh at odds with
the conclusions but the Air Force
canceled project bluewick anyway so this
really leads to uh what I think are sort
of four heresies that maybe we'd like to
talk about in the context of the
hereticon the first being that
non-disclosure of um uncomfortable
aspects of reality is a universal
constant across cultures and across time
and the second piece as Diana alluded is
that there's a hierarchy of being with
non-human Intelligence being included in
that cosmism which Diane is an expert at
is at the root of both the Russian and
the US space program and Consciousness
is a component not only of metaphysics
but of physics
itself I actually want to get get into
cosmism so this idea that I mean you uh
met a uh you know somebody deep in the
space program who was a nuts and bolts
you know contributor to our space
program we think of our space program as
you know Elon Musk is the tip of the
spear all we have is sort of chemical
combustion um but you're speaking to
this guy who in your book you write
about pseudonymously named Tyler who uh
is engaging in sort of like
Consciousness protocols and that's
somehow a essential to his work and then
you go back and you do research about
the early American and Russian space
programs and how you know a lot of these
people think that they're in touch with
Angelic and in certain cases demonic
beings do you want to talk about that
yeah sure so um so cosmism what's that
so there are uh when this when this
happened to me in 2012 um I started to
get my bearings after you know this
recognition that people in Aerospace in
some of these companies were actually
doing this work and what this meant um I
was shocked I saw my own tradition from
a different lens and I decided to go
back and to look at the space programs
the viable ones that would be the
American Space Program ours and the
Russian space program and so I started
to do the preliminary you know work that
a person does when they're looking at
this is you know what were their belief
systems um the ones that inspired these
men in the early 20th century late uh
19th century early 20th century what
inspired them to create rocket
technologies that were successful and
actually got us off the planet so if you
go to the Russian Cosmos tradition which
is a similar tradition you know where
they believe in you know like uh
Constantine chikovsky believed in nhi
and that he was you know he believed in
this and he wrote books about it and
he's the father of Russian rocketry
they're Christian they have kind of a
Christian overlay to this or framework
and so I saw this as the beginning of
the Russian Space Program
and I began to do the same work with our
space program and in fact I found it was
Jack Parson's now of course if anybody
knows about Jack Parson the patterns
here match in terms of he believed that
he was in contact Jack Parsons is the
father of our uh Space Program by the
way um super interesting guy um work
with Alistar Crowley so obviously he's
not giving his nhi a Christian veneer
but I wouldn't say he's calling it
demonic though like sorry that's my
interpretation yeah a lot of people say
oh he was you know demonic but he didn't
view what he was doing as demonic he
actually viewed what he was doing as
good he thought that he was working for
the common task of humans of getting us
into the space so this would be the uh
the Russian and the American uh COs in
fact I named my book American Cosmic
because I was impressed that we hadn't
talked about it and I thought that
somebody should modernity is an
aberration and that we think man is Apex
Consciousness that that is sort of a
detour when it comes to the epistemology
of mankind over you know across
thousands of years and in fact uh Many
religious scholars in the past have gone
so far as to classify a lot of the
beings you know between us and God and
so St Thomas aquinus had his Angel
hierarchies uh amus who's a Syrian
neoplatonist also had similar Angel
hierarchies and they literally have
taxonomies and categorizations for these
angels they describe them they describe
some of the effects of people that
observe them some in some cases it's
literally will say like irradiated light
so it sounds like kind of
electromagnetic you know damage or
whatever so Carl do we have any kind of
modern scientific Frameworks for how we
should think about nhi or kind of you
know them being higher on the kind of
Consciousness or evolution chain yeah so
the uh the scale that's often used is
What's called the kardashev scale
Nicolai kardashev Uh Russian astronomer
back in 1964 sort of proposed during the
age where Optical astronomy was becoming
popular and radioastronomy is coming on
to identify civilizations based on the
ability of uh them to access the energy
of entire star so you could build this
thing called a Dyson Sphere around a sun
and so that would blot out the visible
light but there'd be a big IR signature
and if you know um astronomers could
detect this then they detect the
civilization so he called that a type
two civilization and then by extension
there's a type three civilization that
controls you know all the energy output
of a galaxy let's say and type one
civilization maybe a little bit more
advanced from our own that's basically
controlling the whole planet so this is
the kardashev scale You Know Carl Sean
talks about this Neil degrass Tyson
Mitch ukaku it's it's like a popular
thing I would argue though that the
scales it's it's really not very
instructive to look at like UFOs and UAP
because total civilization energy usage
is like an unknowable thing based on um
observations of potential craft or
potential recovered material or
biologics or what have you so there's a
better model out there uh that I would
recommend which is the universal
civilization development model and it
goes off of like what they have what
they know and who they are and so what
they have would be more about energy
density than the magnitude of energy
usage so energy density like if I've got
a certain energy density I get fire I
got greater energy density over a longer
time I can smelt metal ultimately I can
do nuclear reactions maybe I can warp
space and time maybe I can even impact
the laws of physics so that's the
physics of energy jacqu valet has talked
about this idea of physics of
information so how much about the nature
of reality does this civilization
perhaps know how much complexity can
their ma can they manage what's the time
constant for their thought process how
many parallel paths can they contemplate
as a single time this idea of
Consciousness comes into play so this
you know almost a physics of information
now is this other dimension and then the
third dimension is U the ecological
evolutionary Dimension what is the
chemical basis for for for this life
form where are they on the evolutionary
path maybe not just a hundred years
ahead of us maybe a million years what's
what's it look like for a life form to
be a billion years ahead of us what's
their relationship with their
environment are is it omnivorous they
derive from omnivorous stock herbivore
stock uh Etc so all these things create
a phase space perhaps that would be
populated by a range of beings and the
and the distance in this phase space you
know we might call it the Hamming
Distance by analogy with electromagnetic
signal prod in might dictate the
likelihood of a competition symbiotic or
competitive relationship based on uh the
likely hierarchies that undoubtedly
exist Diana we're talking about
hierarchy of being and man not being the
Apex of Consciousness and then we're
also talking about uh us you know
scientists and engineers at the top of
our space program using Consciousness
protocols um if any of this stuff is
true I mean I I feel like a lot of
people in the audience probably did come
and walk into this room believing these
things are we in Plato's Cave are we in
this sort of epistemic cave and if we
are how do we get out yes that's a great
question so um okay first off I don't I
don't think and I'm gonna reference
Peter's talk okay because I thought it
was really a great segue into some of
the things that we were going to talk
about you know we're we're told that um
there's nothing worse than Armageddon
but perhaps there is perhaps we should
fear the Antichrist perhaps we should
should fear the One World totalitarian
state uh more than Armageddon and so I
would say that the apocalypse is
structural uh so for anyone in my field
um we know that the apocalypse is always
happening okay there's always an
apocalypse so the early Christians who
were Jewish actually did have their
apocalypse uh you know the the Romans
destroyed their temple in 70 that was an
apocalypse that those very specifically
Jewish Christians were were knowing was
going to happen it happened but we go on
things go on okay so what is it then so
the idea that um that there is an out or
that you know there's there's a solution
to the apocalypse Plato suggests that uh
it's it's in the allegory of the cave so
he never answers the question but he
gives this allegory and what it is is
basically a conversation he calls it the
dialectic and he says that um what you
can do is you can have this conversation
so there's a sense of Community baked in
here but it's a it's more than just a
conversation it's a conversation about
Justice it's a conversation about
goodness so you're saying kind of
contemplation of virtue literally allows
you to ascend out of this world in some
way in some sort of metaphysical way I'm
not sure I do believe that's what he's
saying and he's he's basically saying
that there is a sort of conversation
that you can have probably not a text
message right and um and that it is a
it's that's what he presents as the out
and I think if there's a third option
it's going to be that so with Plato
Diana is sort of talking about maybe a
Proto architecture to religion and Carl
we've had kind of offline conversations
where you've said to me that maybe the
esoteric version of a lot of the world's
religions are actually sort of
normalizable they actually contain a lot
of similarities when it comes to kind of
encounters with non-human intelligence
do you want to talk about that yeah well
I think that actually right so most of
these sort of the gnosic tradition the
uh Sufi tradition in Islam uh the kabala
in uh Judaism and even nulas vedant all
talk about this sort of inward looking
initiatic experience where you're you
know you're transcending this reality
and connecting with a deeper reality so
there there's actually an interesting um
study that was done the oldest uh large
Corpus like significant Corpus of
religious texts like in the world
anywhere of any tradition any culture
are the pyramid texts like fifth Dynasty
uh Egypt something like you know 2500 BC
and so the uh egyptological
interpretation of the pyramid text is
funerary but there's a counter
counterveiling scholarship that says
well actually it's like really
initiatory when egyptology was created
it moved away from mysticism and went
totally rationalist and so the ancient
Greeks and the ancient Romans anybody
that actually knew Egyptian civilization
firsthand knew that they were very
esoteric and so egyp scholarship has
moved away from that and made the
Egyptians extremely rationalist and very
much funeral ritual based once you put
the initiatic experience into the
pyramid texts based on something called
the said Festival which is essentially a
kingship ritual that's known to exist
then the pyramid and the pyramid text
become an initiatic engine that um that
the living might actually Embark upon
and this is interesting because then it
creates direct connective tissue between
the Hermetic tradition and the Gnostic
tradition that came out of late period
Egypt and then influenced um both
classical Antiquity and then early
Christian um theology so you've got
essentially a a linear line that can now
be traced potentially to the earliest
tradition in an esoteric sense it's a
great Meister reart quote U theologians
May Coral but Mystics all speak the same
language so I think it speaks to that
sort of proarch and there's actually a
story I think of Jewish kabalists
meeting with the doy Lama and they're
like talking about these non-human
intelligences and the colors associated
with them and they're just kind of
laughing about how kind of in agreement
they are worldview wise I want to stick
with you Carl because we are in a room
full of entrepreneurs and people in
venture capital and so they might be
thinking okay this all this stuff might
be real but I don't really see it and
it's kind of ephemeral and like what
does this have to do with me is that is
any of this investable uh can we turn
this into a company right Carl do you
want to well right well I might hit that
ball right back at you because uh
Jesse's done a number of podcasts
looking into tailor towns in brown and
some other very interesting uh like
heretical Technologies so I'd invite
people uh unsolicited plug to check out
some of Jesse's podcasts U but I would
also submit to you if you sort of look
at the Arc of technological development
we're getting to the point that Fineman
had talked about in the early 60s about
there's room at the bottom which is by
which he meant like we're getting at the
level where we can engineer at the
molecular level at the nature that that
that nature operates and so these
disciplines that uh originally appeared
to be disperate like information science
Material Science the semiconductor Fab
genomics Etc all look pretty much the
same uh once you're able to engineer at
the molecular level so information and
materials start to merge you can come up
with programmable matter perhaps
self-healing structures self-repairing
structures you're you're starting to
move into that vanoyan machine uh level
so I would suggest you know looking at
that area then we alluded earlier to
this thing called the kmir effect the
kmir effect you put two parallel plates
that are conducting very close together
and you would expect classically nothing
would happen but what it actually ends
up happening this was predicted and
measured is that there's negative energy
states that are uh created in between
the plates in other words there's
certain Quantum fluctuations that are
not supportable between those plates and
there's a pressure that's created
between uh from the pressure outside the
plates versus inside and the plates
compress so basically that's extracting
energy out of the vacuum like that's
like free energy like that's not
disputable that's like proven fact so
unfortunately it's not rep uh reciprocal
nobody's figured out how to make a
reciprocating machine you got to reset
the plates to get the energy out so that
is something that's potentially scalable
to a battery perhaps uh but it be a
one-hot battery if somebody can figure
out a way to make that scalable that
would be extremely uh beneficial so so
those are a couple uh Avenues but just
to sort of recap like the heresies right
so non-disclosure is a universal
constant uh of society this idea of
hierarchy of being cosmism you know this
esoteric aspect of um reality being at
the basis of the space program and
Consciousness playing a role in both
physics and metaphysics where our
technolog is getting to the point where
we can perhaps develop a physical basis
for Consciousness and then develop
Technologies out of Consciousness which
oh by the way any more advanced
civilizations probably already gotten to
should open uh I think our eyes
collectively that there's sort of group
think going on and opportunities that
are right in front of our face are being
missed uh because uh we're not
incorporating these other aspects of
reality so in that sense agnosticism is
not like an optional worldview well Carl
I'll take that plug to the bank I really
appreciate it um I want to wrap up with
you Diana Peter teal was on uh uh Joe
Rogan a month ago and he was asked about
aliens like half the conversation was
about aliens and he cited your work
which was fascinating uh and he said
that uh aliens uh are not only probably
Angels and Demons they have to be Angels
and Demons because of the Dual use
nature of tech and the forcing function
nature of tech and so the pulka literal
thing I'd come to is the aliens it's not
that they might be demons or Angels they
must be demons or Angels if you have
faster than light travel and both of
those seem pretty crazy to me and so if
you have warp drive technology as a
deliver as a delivery mechanism for a
payload like a nuclear weapon that's you
can't defend against that and I find it
interesting you talk about St Francis of
aisi seeing what was probably a craft or
an orb a seraphim and um the last thing
he writes in his diary is the Greek
letter Tao which uh means conversion
yeah and so it was like this forcing
function conversion and so in the world
in which you know uh a aliens which are
being you know at least in the form of
UFOs seen at record levels now
statistically or you know as far as data
the data goes um is the veil falling you
know the the the the word Apocalypse in
its original Greek means the unveiling
are we seeing these things at a greater
preponderance because we are living in
the apocalypse and what does that mean
as far as how we should live our own
lives yeah I do think we're living in a
apocalypse I think that there is an
unveiling going on and I think this is a
great amazing time so yes I think
so all right thank you guys yeah thank
you
Jess I'm here with Diana Walsh Pula uh
we just had an amazing talk with Colonel
Carl Nell and it's funny in our first
conversation you brought up this concept
of emergence yeah and this idea that you
would get uh kind of interdisciplinary
intersections between experts in various
fields which the UFO phenomena kind of
brings together because you can go at it
with so many angles and I thought it was
a really great conversation between a
guy who in a kind of a nuts and bolts
you know very hard-headed fashion look
through a bunch of class ified material
came out of that experience on the UAP
task force saying I think UFOs are real
and trying to drive a lot of this
forward through legislature and and
other means and then a religious studies
Professor who had no interest in UFOs
and was just objectively kind of looking
at religious as a phenomena and not even
looking at it as some you know
underlying metaphysical truth bumping
into the UFO uh phenomena so what did
you think about that talk I'm really
impressed with his knowledge so so not
only is he excellent at nuts and bolts
and looking at you know the technical
aspects of UAP UFOs but he knows the
whole history of religions back to
egyptology and he's able to in a sense
do what I do and what jacqu valet did
right which was look at the historical
record and find evidence of
nhi um UAP you know whatever you want to
say about it um angels as they have been
termed so yeah I had a really great time
talking with him and I think that that
um you also added a lot to it because
you know both sides well do what I can I
I I appreciate both of you uh gracing us
with your presence and before our
conversation uh Peter teal who's kind of
you know helping Host this event did a
really interesting talk on the
Antichrist so he's been focusing on the
Antichrist and he's been talking about
it as um you know in history you know
how has the Antichrist been represented
when we think about the
Antichrist um how best to conceal being
the Antichrist well that is to talk
about it a lot and basically to you know
push this this idea that uh there's an
apocalypse okay and that we are you know
we need to save save ourselves and do
good okay and of course everybody's
going to agree with that and that's a
great veneer and then he reminds he
reminded the audience that that's of
course how the Antichrist presents as
the one that is you know giving the
solution and so I thought that was
really interesting what do you think
about that I thought so too he cites
Thessalonians peace and safety being the
slogan of the Antichrist I think you
look at a lot of evil that's done in
today's world without getting too
specific depending on which side of the
aisle you're on but it's on it's on both
sides and um I think you have a lot of
today's evil is couched in this veneer
of kind of utilitarian effective
altruism world is my sandbox I'm going
to you know uh rearrange the figures you
know on on a global scale and like make
things sort of work out and that is sort
of a form of evil it's also outward
looking so it's never inward looking
like am I doing bad or am I harming
people you know and you met Renee Gerard
yeah yeah I love his theories I'm a
girardian too and Gerard always says you
know to even spot a scapegoat you need a
third-party witness because nobody
thinks that they're doing the
scapegoating and in fact we're doing
scapegoating all day long and the the
history of humanity is the history of
human violence and that all of us have
sort of you know greedy greedy impulses
and there's obviously violence up until
you know Murder and large scale war and
stuff but we do small violence to one
another all the time through mimetic
desires and jealousy and that sort of
thing and we have to look inward yeah
that's right so um his Professor was
Renee Gerard and I was at Berkeley at
the time at the Jesuit School of
Theology and and Peter was at Stanford
and so while he was taking these classes
I was actually driving to Rene Gerard's
colloquiums to listen to him and I so I
had been exposed to his theories When I
Was An undergraduate at the University
of California in Davis and his book
violence in the sacred kind of broke
through and really destabilized a lot of
different disciplines and a lot of
people didn't like it because it was
such a giant Theory of Everything right
it was really a theory of everything
like a theory of evil right and and he
Rene Gerard is a was a Catholic right
and he did attend I believe it was Latin
mass and so the Jesuits that I was
taking courses from they didn't want to
go themselves because there was
something kind of heretical about Rene
Gerard because there was no they they
said there wasn't anything really
transcendent about Christ for Rene
Gerard that he looked at evil as anthrop
like an anthropology like you know that
we were you know we there was no
Transcendent or metaphysical evil that
he spoke of I think what's so heretical
about Gerard is and why he was s sort of
not accepted both by religious Scholars
or by you know evolutionary biologists
in his time is because he has this sort
of theory of everything you know this
kind of Proto architecture like to
religion and so that's like real heresy
yes it absolutely is yeah and we talked
about that earlier in the context of
Plato maybe another person who has this
kind of Proto architecture of religion
so we were talking you know off camera
before this you were saying you know you
interpret Plato maybe slightly
differently than a lot of kind of uh
quote unquote uh philosophers or
Scholars that's right yeah yeah so of
course I I read Plato you know early on
as an undergraduate and again as a
graduate student but I really didn't
start actually reading Plato until I
encountered the people who believed in
UFOs and I saw the um the ways in which
UFOs have been you know concealed by our
government within this environment where
I witnessed harassment firsthand saw
people who were um the quote unquote
whistleblowers being harassed and you
know it's not pretty it's terrible and I
was depressed so I thought you know how
do I make sense of this and so Plato's
Republic kept coming back into my head
and Plato by the way he asked the
question can there be a just society and
why he asks this is because he's pretty
horrified by what happened to his mentor
his mentor was killed by his government
which was Athens and his and Socrates
was given it out but he didn't take it
instead he said I live by the laws of
Athens and I'll die by them and this is
just this is right well Plato didn't buy
that it seems he has a dialogue between
Socrates and glan and they asked the
question can we have a just government
and they go through all these ridiculous
scenarios he's saying that no it doesn't
look like we can figure out how to have
a just government how do we do it well
then he performs it he does a
performative thing at the end of the
Republic and so what does he give us he
gives us two things that we call
allegories or metaphors one is the
allegory of the cave people are you know
see Shadows on the wall and they think
that this and people are are showing
them these Shadows by the way so we tend
not to know we tend to discount that
there are other people that are like or
things that are showing us these shadows
and we are thinking that they're reality
and somehow we get out and we Ascend out
of the cave and we recognize that wow
most people are completely blinded by
this okay so how how does this work them
and so then he like throws in basically
the first recorded or one of the first
recorded ndes which is the myth of er
which is about the soldier who dies in
battle and has a near-death experience
and sees that people actually uh you
know live again they're Immortal they
have some kind of soul and so he tells
this story well those are two very
strange ways to end this book about the
just society and so when I'd asked my
professors you know what does this mean
because I went back to them and I even
asked my friends who are philosophers so
what do you think about this uh ah it's
just a metaphor it's just an allegory
well I don't think it is so there so
what's then the takeaway the takeaway is
a performative thing it's nothing that
you can say Jesse do this and it'll be
all right no you have to actually do it
what is it well it's basically creating
a community of people like the other
person um so you know it's called the
dialectic and it's a form it's a
mystical conversation basically which is
really hard for us to wrap our brains
around what does it even mean to have a
mystical conversation I think that if
people are watching this talk they've
had a mystical conversation right and
you have to like think of those times
when you met that person who's like your
best friend and every time you saw them
the energy would change you know and
you'd have such an amazing talk that's
what he's talking about that kind of
community community based on that
because wouldn't you die for that person
you know wouldn't you do those things
that are noble before that friendship
yeah okay so that's the kind of thing
that he's giving us that's amazing well
yeah and I think a lot of Plato readers
think of him as fully allegorical and
they don't think there's some
metaphysical architecture that he's
actually talking about like the myth of
ER I think is a great example so the
cave is another example but u in the
case of the myth of er he's talking
about this uh myth where you have
anamnesis you have this idea that
there's this primordial Soul self that
kind of has knowledge of all of your
incarnations and then you cross the
river of forgetfulness into you know an
Incarnation where you forget your former
self and um maybe through kind of a
near-death experience or a mystery
ritual which by the way Plato we
probably now know went through the
linian mystery rituals himself that's
right and so he probably believed this
like to all the people that think it's
just an allegory you know then you
experience noesis you you you regain
knowledge of your kind of IM Immortal
Soul do you think that literal reading
of of Plato is an important kind of
overlay that is missing in today's
reading I think that a lot so you know I
went through graduate school and of
course any kind of literalist reading of
any of these texts is abhor so people
are going to say no you can't read it
literally like that and I know okay okay
so yeah did he really mean it this way
well not necessarily literally there's a
cave you know but he meant it in a very
real sense and that's what I'm trying to
to get at here and um and yes there's
you know this goes against the grain of
of both liberal and conservative
readings of Plato right it's a
completely mystical reading here it goes
beyond even you know some people read it
as this is the subjectivity of you know
human subjectivity it goes beyond that
because it poses something other than
the human itself or himself or herself
um so so yeah so another thing too is
that the early Christians actually utili
this text so in uh you know we found now
in the 1940s we found a lot of libraries
of the early Christians and we got an
insight into what you know influenced
them well the allegory of the cave and
Plato's Republic influenced them you
know so they found something very
Transcendent Transcendent and very
jesus-like right in these texts so it's
a lineage you see I didn't know that
yeah wow what are there examples of kind
of connections between early
Christianity and I guess Martin Luther
King I think wrote uh an essay about the
Pagan continuity hypothesis yeah and so
I you know there's this idea even the
Last Supper might have been kind of a
mystery ritual of sorts Elaine Pagel
also writes about that that's right so
we're learning so a lot of people think
that Christianity is set and it doesn't
change right well Archaeology is showing
us and material culture is showing us so
many things that we are learning about
the early Christians and also I would
suggest that the Greek Orthodox Church
really does actually know about this
connection between Socrates and the
Greeks you know the Greek Socratic
philosophers basically and this lineage
that goes directly into Christianity
early Christianity it's a hellenized
Judaism right so it's a Judaism that's
completely infused with Greek thought
like you look at the Apostle Paul um all
of the Greek um all of the scriptures of
Christianity are Greek Greek are written
in Greek okay so so yes this this makes
sense wasn't Paul supposedly According
to some Scholars kind of a cabalist too
like he was a in the meraba kind of um
you know Ezekiel tradition it looks like
it I mean you know I'm not a new
testament scholar so I don't want to go
out on Limb and say for sure you know
that was but yeah if you look at his you
know his conversion it looks similar to
meraba you know uh and I do have friends
who are New Testament Scholars and they
won't they don't feel comfortable coming
out and saying these things but they'll
tell me in secret they'll say yeah yeah
you know Jesus too by the way I'm like
really why don't you write a book about
that the book of he goes up on the cloud
that's right that's right it's it's
amazing how much some of these kind of
esoteric religious practices actually
comport like if you look at the uh heot
the Palaces of you know Jewish cabalism
or whatever you have seven of these
palaces well in Egypt you had the arit
you know the the seven and then you know
in Rosicrucianism you know he goes up
through seven levels and you know he he
has to leave a garment behind on each
level at each level you always encounter
kind of uh you know these different
beings um you know some are good some
are bad but they sort of you know are
all testing you that's right so it's
very fascinating so we're talking about
this tradition this merkaba tradition
that seemingly talks about a a form of
community if not a government a form of
community a Ecclesia right that's the
the early church Greek term for the
community right that's based on these
connections with merkaba seraphim what
have you these kinds of uh knowledge
bearers messengers of God right and so
how does that how would that look
today that's a great question I don't
know how how would it look today Diana
well I think that I think that we're
seeing it now I think we're seeing the
very beginnings of this type of
recognition that they're you know UFOs
yeah that's what I think is going on and
there's you know this recognition that
we're not alone okay and I mean that was
the premise for a lot of those schools
was that we're not alone but you have to
get right with these things yeah okay so
that's what that's the whole idea was
they were looking inward so they weren't
looking outward so the whole tradition
like of Paul he changes his name because
you know think about his conversion it
was he was Saul and he was living a life
of violence of all things right he was
very violent now why he was violent I
don't know but he was persecuting and
wanting Christians to die and then he
has this merkaba situation that he
seemingly didn't cultivate right it
happened just spontaneously to him it
seems you know at least from his
position he didn't call it into his life
and then it changes him he changes his
name and then he works for these
communities he gives his life to the
formation of these communities so how
should one an average person sort of
conceptualize this stuff because you
know it seems like if you read like
William James there's kind of an outer
ring of religious people that don't
truly believe in the metaphysical kind
of architecture underneath the religion
they just kind of show up to church or
synagogue or a mosque and they kind of
pray and they do the daily rituals maybe
it's this Pascal's wager for them where
it's this like hyper rational if I do
this thing maybe there's an afterlife
and then you have these Mystics sort of
go straight at the truth but that seems
kind of dangerous from like a you know
institutional power structure
perspective like often these Mystics are
misinterpreted or clamped down on by
human power structures and then even in
a more primordial sense or whatever
there's the parable of the four rabbis
who all try to go up into the heavens
and like you know one goes mad two die
and like I might be botching this but
like one one makes it right and so it's
this like extremely straight and narrow
treacherous path yes yeah yeah yeah it
is right so like why should anybody take
that path no I totally agree I'm in
agreement with that uh but when students
do come through my classes you know I
teach basic you know survey of religions
you know kind of thing and when we were
in the Christianity section I'm in the
South so there are lots of Christians in
my class you know they're they go to
church and so I say why do you go to
church and they don't know right and I
say do you you know what about this part
of the Bible where you know is talking
about this angel or that angel and you
know this and that and they're like well
that doesn't happen anymore right and so
I think that they're you know so I try
to get them to to interrogate you know
their own religion like what does it say
why are you Christian you know or why
are you Jewish like why are you doing
this you know is it just because this is
your the cultural tradition your
heritage because it could be and that's
fair enough okay yeah um but what I
really liked about Carl Nell's talk at
the salt uh conference was that he
basically did the same thing and I
thought it was really interesting but he
did the same thing of well you know
you're talking you're talking to relig
people who are religious and all of a
sudden they're confronted with the
reality that what they think is this
metaphysical thing is actually real well
that's going to be a shock for them are
you implying that perhaps we as a
society may not be ready for
disclosure I I guess I would draw an
analogy though for people that believe
in a certain Faith tradition what ever
that Faith tradition is and hold to that
And subscribe to that in a very serious
and devout way and and you know sort of
pose the question even for folks of that
ilk and I would count myself as one if
you're confronted with the reality of
your religious belief system like the
reality of the metaphysical uh an angel
a a Reser from god what have you that's
going to be a SE State change in your in
your way of dealing with reality right
even even though you already believe it
right so it's one thing to believe and
it's another to know and I think in this
context this this phenomena has an
analogous the potential for an analogous
effect both on the individual and on
society and I was actually shocked that
he said it and I was like Wow uh that's
kind of what I say to students but never
in this never so bluntly like never like
no this is a re reality you know because
I can't really say that I you know maybe
it's a reality maybe it's not a reality
um but there's whole tradition of it
yeah well it's it's still like one of
these things where believing this stuff
you know it can either sort of burn you
or save you like it feels like even
angels themselves are kind of
misinterpreted as these like cherubic
friendly beings you know in in in the
modern day and in fact if you look
historically at Angel interactions that
you know a lot of which he write about
uh these can be extremely violent and
they can you know deal with you very
harshly and they can set you on a path
that might be sort of more morally pure
they might excavate sort of bad things
that leave you and you know you become
better or whatever but it can be
extremely painful in the process yes I
think so so one of the things that was
shocking to me when I first started
doing this was the reality that the
government was looking into it as real
whereas I was looking into it as
truly historical metaphorical not real
okay then I recognized that a lot of
people felt like it was their duty to
contact these things right and that
again that brought me to another level
of like what a bad idea you know because
historically well here's an example so
when I first started corresponding with
AER Aerospace people people in Aerospace
um corporations and things like that um
they they wanted the data like they
wanted to know what did European
Catholics see um when they saw an angel
or a demon or something like that uh did
did they have any effect like what kind
of effects did they have on their bodies
and things like that and did they have
any did they report like other types of
effects well yeah all that data is there
so you know I started to look at it and
I met Gary Nolan so I met Gary Nolan
pretty early on probably about
2014 and he shared with me his own
research so he had been recruited just
as I was being recruited he was also
recruited to work with people who were
you know in the program I guess you
could call it or I don't know how to
really discuss it you know he
the government was looking into uaps and
he was a person who could help okay so
they recruited him and I got to see some
of the research that he was doing and
some of it had to do with the effects
that it had on people and they were like
radiation Burns and things like that so
looking through the historical record I
saw that indeed there were cases where
people reported being hurt you know in
in this way um so yeah so it's not the
best idea then to just decide that this
is something you're going to undertake
and I never propose that by the way I
always say learn learn about it but
don't engage in doing it like I propose
for people if they're interested if they
actually have their own religious
tradition check it out go back to it and
look at it again so if it's Judaism go
back to it there's a rich Heritage
Buddhism same thing go back to it
there's a rich Heritage my My Religion
uh Catholicism go back to it there's a
rich Heritage there so I I think that's
probably the best way to start looking
at
it and it's so fascinating that
contemporary
Aerospace uh you know people are
reaching out to you as well as you know
people from NASA uh it does feel like
we're on the precipice of kind of this
new age where a lot of this stuff seems
to be coming out because the
conventional history of a lot of these
programs and companies are just you know
chemical combustion nuts and bolts you
know it's all kind of this materialist
reductionist science but in fact I think
when you speak to a lot of people at
these these organizations they're
extremely open-minded and it's almost
like science cleaved off in like the 50s
or 60s and hit a culdesac and kind of
Academia and then Aerospace just kept
going but it's this also you have this
religious veilance on top of it as well
where like the early NASA missions had
you know uh Horus and Osiris and um it
was like I mean you told me in our last
interview right it was like uh Greek and
Latin you know on symbology and yeah
first century Latin first century Latin
that's right the Empire The Empire wh
why do you think they kind of were
paying homage to that tradition yeah
that's such a great question so first I
don't know yeah okay nobody would ever
give me a straight answer yeah but I did
ask do you think there's somebody in
charge who was like yeah like I know
that the like Greeks had it right and
you have to sort of deal with these nhi
in order to get to space and like this
is the program or do you think it was
some emergent thing that like they were
kind of softly in touch maybe that's an
unanswerable question I don't know but
um I believe that so my own opinion
about this this is just my opinion after
looking and talking to people that are
you know the people that are doing it
actually you know doing okay so um they
would tell me that this was a way to pay
a AG to the sponsors they call them the
sponsors and I you know i' ask do they
read Latin you know kind of thing like
really and they would say absolutely I
think that it's a large tradition that
goes unacknowledged in our history and
you think it's sort of hermetically
passed oh for sure absolutely it is yes
but that's fascinating because that's
sort of tying today's space program to
like maybe you know hermetically sealed
you know uh Egyptian you know Traditions
like like how far back does this s
amazing I know I mean it's it's
definitely it's not a christianized
veneer so if you go to the Russian
Cosmos tradition which is a similar
tradition you know where they believe in
you know like uh Constantine chikovsky
believed in nhi and that he was you know
he believed in this and he wrote books
about it and he's the father of Russian
rocketry um they're Christian they have
kind of a Christian overlay to this or
framework
but you know we have Jack Parsons
definitely not a Christian um but then
you do have the same you know you have
the impetus that stays there it's not as
weird as Jack Parson's but it's weird
enough it's definitely not Christian it
seems to be Greco Roman you know with
the the recognition that that that there
are these deities right you know and uh
does it go back to Egypt I don't know I
don't know you know I am not an Insider
so I don't have an inside track I just
can spot the myth that's being called a
myth but it's actually real that they're
like create you know they are they are
doing this intentionally well I think
that's kind of this myth in disclosure
overall because like both of us are on
the outside but we've like poked you
know we've poked around like we have
like a decent mental map that's probably
like better than just the average person
who's like not really you know
interested in this stuff right and like
my my serious inclination now that was
not the case a few years ago is that
there's like no one in charge or that
like if it is there is something in
charge it's this like Loosely
distributed weird thing that's like
emerging and has like a a mind of its
own and maybe there are some people kind
of tapped into deeper layers of reality
but it's certainly not commensurate with
some clear clearance system or
classification system within the
government yeah that's okay so I fully
on board with that theory and you know
because you can't we can't prove it can
we yeah but it's just a theory but I'll
give you some examples but we've met
enough people who like people on the
outside are like that's the Deep State
architect of the Godfather of the UFO
stuff and like we meet them and they're
like well they don't know a lot of stuff
that this other person knows and you
know there's like a lot of that going on
yeah a lot of it so that made me
actually think about the oral tradition
of it because I was around enough people
to know
that they figured out their missions not
from asking people or having someone
tell them they had to figure it out on
their own and that process was hard for
them and they didn't even know that they
got it right until they got an award for
it like two years later yeah so they
didn't know and they would also tell me
things like well people were on this
Mission but they never knew until they
got the the uh you know the uh the card
or not the card the patch yeah until
they got the patch or or whatnot or they
you know they figured it out and so I
was beginning to see it as when I I have
friends that are uh indigenous and uh
they occasionally tell me a couple of
things you know about their worldview
and the way that they're uh like
Australian Aboriginal culture works
right and apparently there's like a
very um succinct and transmissible oral
tradition that is really old like you
know what 30,000 years old or something
like that and it has to do with you know
nhi and things like that and so I begin
to see our space program like that like
wow that's how it works there's an oral
tradition that's transmitted but it's
not transmitted through this memo you
know so the Declassified memos what do
they really mean you know when there's
this type of tradition yeah well all the
memos seem like they're kind of groping
in the dark and they don't really know
what these things are I'm a big fan of
this mid-century inventor Townsen Brown
who we talked about earlier with Carl
Nell and he says it's like you know fish
in the water they don't know you know
the they just see the holes of the ships
over over top but they have no idea what
those ships are transporting or why
they're there and that really you know
feels like where we're at but you bring
up the this idea of a patch what what do
you mean by that okay so the patches so
um in the space force or whatever we
call it today you know where people are
on to send things up into space
satellites or what have you uh they work
on these these um and they get these
patches okay so a lot of people know
about these patches they have a Roman
God on them or something like that and
they usually have the the Latin that
describes the the mission but in a way
that's really opaque and even making fun
of Outsiders right so this is the
mission you could even you know go
online and see a lot of those patches
and I've known someone to have like uh
at least 150 of these patches whoa yeah
so this is a person whose whole life has
been doing this work wow well I think
about um the person you pseudonymously
named Tyler in your book and he's this
NASA Mission controller it seems like
he's using kind of Consciousness
protocols to make the launches work he's
this very interesting figure but then he
goes to the Vatican with you and he has
this conversion experience and it's
almost as if uh what he looks into in
the Vatican archives confirms that his
the work that he's been doing is somehow
mystical and like way more like globally
meaningful than just this nuts and bolts
like we're putting satellites in space
sort of thing yeah that was really an
amazing um experience for me to witness
the conversion that he went through uh
we started at the Vatican looking at the
the records of uh Joseph of copertino
and a and bilocating sister um Maria
agaga and we also had exposure to uh
Peter gomel who had been a Papal adviser
he's a Jesuit um talked a lot about the
Templars by the way interesting yeah and
um do you remember what he said about
the Templars I
do okay moving
on so that's where it started so he
started to
to reexamine his life I guess and I
could see that process cuz I've seen it
before and I had a feeling that when we
got to Castle Galo at the Vatican
Observatory where he was going to meet
astrophysicist monks and you know those
people that live like that they have you
know that's their mission and their
mission is fused is it fuses religion
and science I knew that that that would
be his place and that he would probably
convert at that point and I was right so
then we left the Vatican and we went
there and then he spent a lot of time
the archives looking at Copernicus and
Kepler uh and you know Originals by the
way and also uh looking at uh
electromagnetism it's amazing and things
like that and I just like could couldn't
get him out of the archive just like
glued to these books it's incredible and
the other thing I wanted to follow up on
from our first interview is you said
this remarkable thing and I kind of like
just I don't know I ignored it bad
interviewer or in my case or something
because cuz you said this really
profound thing you said that when you
went with Tyler to the Vatican
Observatory they knew who he was before
having gone there and that tripped me
out when I was watching it over in the
edit because I was like why does the
Vatican Observatory they're obviously
very well respected and well staffed
when it comes to real astronomy but how
do they know who a NASA Mission
controller from the US is yeah not only
that but when we were there we just
happened to correspond with a that a
trip that
um all these young scientists from Issa
so the European Space Agency they were
all there too and so brother guy who's
the director go Bri guy consel Mano he
was he was giving them um you know a
really awesome tour and talk and
everything so he introduced us and so he
introduced me and they were like you
know kind of cool clap clap clap and
they introduced Tyler with his real name
and the whole place just erupted into
this yes like that and that was a
recognition for me that Americans kind
of don't know what's going on but they
did yeah they were to to them he was a
hero yeah it was really really cool
that's incredible the other interesting
connection with Tyler is he met Chris
bledo I think or before you yes he did
yeah and they had a relationship and I
think uh Ryan bledo who's Chris's son
said that um Tyler had told Chris that
he was part of a group with towns and
brown who I just mentioned so towns and
Brown's this like fascinating
mid-century inventor who I think you
know made more discoveries in the world
of gravity than meet the eye you know
might have tied gravity and
electromagnetism together and that has
implications for time as well because if
you can shift gravity at all you can
shift time and general relativity and he
would talk in his private life
constantly about time travel and so what
I I found just so fascinating is Tyler
tells the blood sees that he was
involved with a group that was based in
NASA and the Bahamas and town and brown
was the president of this group and time
travel technology was involved and I
would totally discount that and think
that's probably wrong if I didn't know
so much about town and brown and I know
he spent a ton of time in nasso in the
Bahamas and with a very interesting kind
of cast of characters well you know
that's so fascinating because when I
knew Tyler he was always he was always
talking about time travel and really
yeah whenever a new movie about time
travel would come out he would go see it
like The Adjustment
Bureau yeah yeah that's fascinating yeah
so um I mean
wow that's amazing it seems like we both
know so yeah you're kind of like the the
person who talks about uh brown right
and then he's an invisible or he was
until you right and then when I met
Tyler that's what I thought I thought
more people have to know about this
person
because he's an invisible but he impacts
so much of our history and we don't even
know it that's a way yes I feel the same
way I felt like it was my duty or
something cuz he he died penniless and
I'm convinced his work made it into the
B2 stealth bomber this like Premier you
know stealth bomber you know and he was
he was paid off by this Finance here at
North Grumman like a ridiculously low
sum of money for the rest of his life
and and and then not even that I mean I
think he literally like unified the
field experimentally and so like that's
so sad everybody knows who even Tes
Tesla got ripped off but people know who
he is and he has a great car company
named after him today nobody knew who
this guy was and and he he created he
was such a patriot he was such an
American Patriot you know it was Cold
War era and so these discoveries
obviously have implications for you know
weaponry and all sorts of other things
and so he created tons of disinfo about
his own work to throw people off the
trail and so he kind of died pennes in
obscurity on Catalina Island w and yeah
so you felt you felt the same Duty with
Tyler I don't know what I felt I felt a
sense that you have like a sense of
Injustice kind of you know that we want
the world to be transparent let me give
you something this can be something that
um I think is is relevant um during the
time that I knew Tyler uh there were
other people like him Invisibles like I
called them the Invisibles right and one
of them had passed away and this is a
person whose family didn't even know
what they did so there was a big sense
of sadness on their part because they
they couldn't eulogize him correctly
they felt because they did not know and
so Tyler actually asked me if I would
help them write the eulogy so I did I
wrote the eulogy and during the time
period of writing it was so emotional
because I was like wow you know how how
do I say this you know so I helped them
I helped them write it and uh they
really they reached out to me afterwards
and they were uh it was consoling to
them yeah because they because someone
outside the family recognized their pain
that's so amazing wow yeah well do you
think that these Invisibles are sort of
outing themselves right now it seems it
seems like some yeah it seems like
they're they're done with this kind of
life right and they want to but um but
again you know we talked about the
reasons why I had to go back and look
back at Plato's Republic which was a
text written through trauma the trauma
of
a government killing Socrates the mentor
of Plato like a teacher who was a wisdom
teacher he wasn't doing anybody any harm
um so in that context maybe the the
whistleblowers should be should maintain
secrecy I don't know I think that uh
it's not a great Outlook to tell you the
truth I mean in the long run it is but
there's a a a spot that's bad it's
really bad and most of the the time is
bad right so Christians are told you
know the world world's up not for you
the this place is not for you I mean
really that's what Christianity suggests
and in a sense that's what Plato's
Republic suggest too because is
everybody going to do the dialectic with
each other and kind of do no no nobody
cares to do it but so do you see what
I'm saying there there are groups of
people who do yeah you know does it have
to be for everyone no there's no sort of
universal fate and uh one needs to sort
of save themselves and but do that in a
sort of maybe communal
way I think you have to do it in a
communal way I mean even Buddha said so
right he said that there were three keys
to Buddhism one is that you can do it
the other one is um the Dharma which is
the teaching and the teaching is could
be anything right it doesn't have to be
a scripture um it could be an event that
teaches you could be having kids by the
way you know it's a really great way to
like learn about life and yourself um so
there's the Dharma but of course there's
the S and you can only do it in a group
because you have each other to help each
other that's fascinating well I think
that's a perfect note to end on Diane I
really appreciate your time and it's
been a great day kind of a marathon and
uh yeah I'm excited to see what happens
in both in UFO world but also in the
World At Large because we're in very
there's a there's a a confusion proverb
you know it's like better to live in
interesting times than good times or
something and that's right well we
definitely live in interesting yeah we
can rationalize our world by saying that
or well anyway thanks for talking with
me Jesse it's always fun to talk with
you it was a blast yeah